Project: Business News Information Extractor

The problem: Companies scan hundreds of news articles daily to track competitor investments, funding announcements, and market moves. Reading each one manually is slow. Your job: build a script that automatically extracts structured data from raw news text.

Input — 3 sample headlines:

python
headlines = [
    "Sundar Pichai announced that Google will invest $10 billion in India by 2027.",
    "Tim Cook confirmed Apple plans to open a new office in Bangalore next year.",
    "Elon Musk said Tesla will build a factory in Germany worth $5 billion by 2026."
]

What your script must extract from EACH headline:

Tokenize each headline (Part 1 skill)
Find all named entities — who's the person, what's the company, how much money, which country, what date (Part 2 — NER)
Find the main action — use dependency parsing to find the ROOT verb of the sentence (e.g., "announced", "confirmed", "said") (Part 2 — dependency parsing)
Detect the investment pattern — use a Matcher pattern to catch phrases like "will invest", "plans to open", "will build" — an AUX/VERB combo or "plans to" + VERB (Part 3 — Matcher)
Flag known companies — use PhraseMatcher with a list ["Google", "Apple", "Tesla"] to double-check the ORG entity was caught correctly (Part 3 — PhraseMatcher)

Final output format (for each headline), something like:

Headline: Sundar Pichai announced that Google will invest $10 billion in India by 2027.
  Person: Sundar Pichai (if detected)
  Company: Google
  Money: $10 billion
  Country: India
  Date: 2027
  Main action (ROOT verb): announced
  Investment phrase matched: will invest

How to approach it: don't write the whole thing at once. Start by looping through just the 3 headlines and printing each one's entities (reuse your Step 5 code). Get that working first, then add the Matcher part, then the PhraseMatcher part.

Want to start with just the entity extraction loop over all 3 headlines, or do you want to attempt the whole thing yourself first and show me what you get?


Project: Customer Review Analyzer

The problem: An e-commerce company gets thousands of product reviews. They want to automatically pull out useful signals from each review: who/what is being talked about, the overall sentence structure, and whether it's a complaint or praise pattern.

Input — 3 sample reviews:

python
reviews = [
    "I bought this laptop from Amazon last week and it works great!",
    "The delivery from FedEx was terrible, my package arrived broken.",
    "Sarah recommended this phone and I love how fast it charges."
]

What your script must extract from EACH review:

1.Tokenize each review (Part 1)
2.Lemmatize — print each word next to its base form, so you can see which words would group together (e.g., "bought" → "buy") (Part 1)
3.Named Entities — find any companies (ORG like Amazon, FedEx) or people (PERSON like Sarah) (Part 2)
4.POS tag the adjectives only — loop through tokens, but only print ones where token.pos_ == "ADJ" (this tells you the "quality words" — great, terrible, fast, broken) (Part 2)
5.ROOT verb — find the main action of the sentence (bought, was, recommended) (Part 2 — dependency parsing)
6.Matcher pattern — build a pattern that catches a PRON + VERB combo (like "I bought", "I love") to detect first-person statements (Part 3)

Expected output style (for review 1):

Review: I bought this laptop from Amazon last week and it works great!
  Lemmas: I=I, bought=buy, this=this, laptop=laptop, ...
  Entities: Amazon --> ORG
  Adjectives found: great
  Main action (ROOT): bought
  First-person pattern matched: I bought